README.md, before:

# CM5 SO-DIMM Carrier

<img width="2483" height="1403" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0496ab93-4c95-473c-82a0-89bfa811d03a" />

This SO-DIMM card essentially let's you turn a CM5 into a NVIDIA Jetson card, turing RK1, and other compatible SO-DIMM standards! It's going to be used for my future server clutser motherboard!
## Custom Features!
- Jetson/Turing RK1/Radxa/etc compatible SO-DIMM connector
- Support for SD Card mounting
- GbE Ethernet
- 1x PCIe Gen 3.0
- 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 support, 1x USB 2.0
- 1x HDMI 2.0
- 2x 4-Lane MIPI CSI
- Misc buttons/LED's

## PCB Design

The CM5 SO-DIMM carrier is a complex 6-layer PCB, with the stackup HIGH-SPEED/GND/SIGNAL/SIGNAL/GND/HIGH-SPEED, with power running along the top layer!

<img width="2485" height="1404" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6665e5a2-3051-45e6-bf47-429893f11384" />

<img width="2482" height="1403" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/697af6de-3f7a-4227-bc32-bcdb3215ecbc" />

Commit message:

Adding reference schematic to readme

README.md, after:

# CM5 SO-DIMM Carrier

<img width="2483" height="1403" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0496ab93-4c95-473c-82a0-89bfa811d03a" />

This SO-DIMM card essentially let's you turn a CM5 into a NVIDIA Jetson card, turing RK1, and other compatible SO-DIMM standards! It's going to be used for my future server clutser motherboard!
## Custom Features!
- Jetson/Turing RK1/Radxa/etc compatible SO-DIMM connector
- Support for SD Card mounting
- GbE Ethernet
- 1x PCIe Gen 3.0
- 2x USB 3.2 Gen 1 support, 1x USB 2.0
- 1x HDMI 2.0
- 2x 4-Lane MIPI CSI
- Misc buttons/LED's

## PCB Design

The CM5 SO-DIMM carrier is a complex 6-layer PCB, with the stackup HIGH-SPEED/GND/SIGNAL/SIGNAL/GND/HIGH-SPEED, with power running along the top layer! You can easily access the schematic [here](https://github.com/KaiPereira/CM5-SODIMM-Carrier/blob/master/PCB_CARRIER/carrier.pdf)!

<img width="2485" height="1404" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6665e5a2-3051-45e6-bf47-429893f11384" />

<img width="2482" height="1403" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/697af6de-3f7a-4227-bc32-bcdb3215ecbc" />
